Add tutorial about flaky tests (#17)
scalacenter/docs.scala-lang: _overviews/toolkit/munit-flakiness.md

---
title: How to deal with flaky tests?
type: section
description: Describe the flaky tag in MUnit.
num: 10
previous-page: munit-resources
next-page: munit-assumptions
---

{% include markdown.html path="_markdown/install-munit.md" %}

A flaky test is a test that fails randomly depending on some outside factor: network issue, concurrency issue, high memory or CPU usage.

> The problem with flaky test is that it makes your CI fails regardless of the actual changes in the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The problem with a flaky test is that it makes your CI fail regardless of the actual changes in the code.
```

As a first step you should try to fix the flaky test.
However, it is sometimes hard to stabilize a test, and yet it is better to keep it than to remove it.

In MUnit you can flag a flaky test with `.flaky`.

{% tabs 'flaky-1' class=tabs-scala-version %}
{% tab 'Scala 2' %}
```scala
class MyTests extends munit.FunSuite {
  test("send some request".flaky) {
    // body of the test
  }
}
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab 'Scala 3' %}
```scala
class MyTests extends munit.FunSuite:
  test("send some request".flaky) {
    // body of the test
  }
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> In your CI you can set the `MUNIT_FLAKY_OK` environment variable to true to ignore the failure of the flaky tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your CI you can set the `MUNIT_FLAKY_OK` environment variable to `true` to ignore the failure of the flaky tests.
```
